---
num: "h05"
desc: "HFDP 1, 2: Intro to Design Patterns, Strategy, Observer"
ready: true
assigned: 2019-05-13 17:00
due: 2019-05-20 17:00
---

*Reading Assignment:* 

* Read Head First Design Patterns (HFDP) Chapter 1 and HFDP Chapter 2. Then do the problems below.

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li style="margin-bottom: 10em;" markdown="1">(10 pts) On pg 11, the author's approach to fixing the Duck simulator is to "use an interface to represent each (duck) behavior ... and each implementation of a behavior will implement one of those interafaces." What is the main motivation / advantage in "Programming to an interface" in this context.
</li>

<li markdown="1">(Thanks to Giovanni R.).  Refer to the code under the heading *"Setting Behavior Dynamically"* on pg 20.

<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> 
(10 pts) What parts of the code on this page allow the user to set duck behavior dynamically at run-time? 
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> 
(10 pts) 
Why would setting behavior dynamically not be possible if we had a concrete implementation that lives inside of the duck class? 
</li>
</ol>
</li>

<div class="pagebreak"></div>

<li markdown="1"> 
The author describes one of the benefits of design patterns as being that of a "shared vocabulary".

<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom:6em;" markdown="1"> 
(10 pts) What does the author mean by "shared vocabulary"?
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:6em;" markdown="1"> 
(10 pts) How is a "shared vocabulary" of design patterns useful to software developers?
</li>

</ol>
</li>

<li markdown="1">
In HFDP Chapter 2, the implementation of the WeatherData class on pg. 43 will update the weather displays when measurements have changed.
<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom:10em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) If additional displays are created and need to be updated by the WeatherData class, briefly explain why this implementation is not easily expandable.
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:10em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) How does having Observer objects implement an Observer Interface solve this problem? Explain this in your own words (Hint, the answer is summarized on pg 53).
</li>

</ol>

<li markdown="1">
In the Observer implementation on pg. 57-59, the author describes this approach as <b>pushing</b> state information.

<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom:6em;" markdown="1">
(5pts) Briefly describe what the author means by "pushing" state?
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:6em;" markdown="1">
(5pts) Briefly describe what the author means by "pulling" state?
</li>
</ol>

<li style="margin-bottom:10em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) The author describes that there is already an Observable class (java.util.Observable) that can be used in implementing the Observer pattern (and also provides a modified WeatherStation implementation using it). What are the two disadvantages of using java.util.Observable (specifically since it is a class)?
</li>
</li>

