---
num: "h06"
desc: "HFDP 3: Intro to Design Patterns, Decorator"
ready: true
assigned: 2019-05-20 17:00
due: 2019-05-28 17:00
---
<b>NOTE: <u>Due to the Memorial Day holiday on Monday 5/27, this homework will be due on Tuesday 5/28 @ 5pm. You will need to scan your homework and upload a legible .pdf file to Gradescope by the deadline. Be sure to ask our staff or come to office hours if you are unsure how to do this.</u></b>

*Reading Assignment:* 

* Read Head First Design Patterns (HFDP) Chapter 3. Then do the problems below.

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li markdown="1">On pg 86, the book provides a definition of the "Open-Closed Principle".

<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom: 10em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) In your own words, define what does the Open-Closed Principle means.
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 10em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) How does the Open-Closed Principle apply to the Decorator Design Pattern?
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 10em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) How does the Open-Closed Principle apply to the Strategy Pattern from HFDP Chapter 1?
</li>
</ol>
</li>

<div class="pagebreak"></div>

<li style="margin-bottom: 10em;" markdown="1">(10 pts) The figures on pg 89 and 90 wraps Decorators around Components and other Decorators. How are these two classes able to "mirror" each other?
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 24em;" markdown="1">(10 pts) The author asks to draw a picture similar to the figure shown at the top of pg 94 for a "double mocha soy latte with whip." Draw this picture below.
</li>

<li markdown="1"> Pg 100 discusses how the java.io package is based on the decorator pattern.

<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom: 8em;" markdown="1">(10 pts) What functionality does the FileInputStream provide?
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 8em;" markdown="1">(10 pts) What role does the FileInputStream object have in the decorator pattern?
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 8em;" markdown="1">(10 pts) What role do the BufferedInputStream and LineNumberInputStream object have in the decorator pattern?
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 8em;" markdown="1">(10 pts) What additional functionality does the BufferedInputStream add to the FileInputStream? What additional functionality does the LineNumberInputStream add?
</li>
</ol>
