---
num: "h07"
desc: "HFJ 15 and 16: Multithreads and Collections"
ready: true
assigned: 2019-05-27 17:00
due: 2019-06-03 17:00
---

*Reading Assignment:* 

* Read Head First Design Patterns (HFJ) Chapter 15 (pg 489 "Multithreading in Java" - pg 517) and HFJ Chapter 16 (pg 529 - 552). Then do the problems below.

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li markdown="1">Threads can be constructed with objects implementing the Runnable interface.

<ol> 
<li style="margin-bottom: 4em;" markdown="1">(5 pts) What method definition is necessary when implementing the Runnable interface? Write the entire method signature (return type, name, and parameters (if any)).
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 6em;" markdown="1">(10 pts) When a thread is created, what role does the method stated in part a. above have?
</li>
</ol>
</li>

<li markdown="1">After a Java thread is created, the JVM thread scheduler categorizes the threads in two states throughout execution.

<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom: 7em;" markdown="1">(10 pts) In your own words, briefly describe the two states of a running Java thread.
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 5em;" markdown="1">(10 pts) On pg 496, the book states several ways a thread will be moved to a "blocked" state. State two ways this may happen.
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 3em;" markdown="1">(5 pts) When a thread wakes up from sleeping, which state mentioned in part a. above does it move to? 
</li>
</ol>
</li>

<div class="pagebreak"></div>

<li style="margin-bottom: 10em;" markdown="1">(10 pts) How do multiple threads behave when dealing with multiple synchronized methods (describe this using the lock / key analogy used on pg 511)?
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 10em;" markdown="1">(5 pts) The book mentions making the makeWithdrawal() method in the Ryan and Monica example as one "atomic" thing. What does the book mean when it uses the term "atomic"?
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 10em;" markdown="1">(10 pts) HFJ Chapter 16 describes several different Java collections. Briefly describe the difference between a HashMap and a LinkedHashMap.
</li>

<li markdown="1">(10 pts) The java.util.Collections (note: this is different than the java.util.Collection interface) has a static sort method.

<ol>

<li style="margin-bottom: 10em;" markdown="1">(5 pts) The Collections.sort method signature shown on pg 539 shows "T extends Comparable" - in your own words, briefly describe what this means.
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 10em;" markdown="1">(5 pts) A compilation error is shown on pg 538 when compiling the example on pg 535 - 537. Why does this code not compile?
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 10em;" markdown="1">(5 pts) What method would need to be added to the Song class in order for this example to compile correctly?
</li>
</ol>
</li>

